My guests today are Alex Beering and
Daniel Schwarz, co-managing partners of
3G Capital. 3G's built one of the most
distinctive firms in investing around a
simple idea. There are only a handful of
truly great businesses and even fewer
great CEOs. So instead of diversifying
broadly, they concentrate deeply. Their
model is to raise capital with the
intention of making just one investment
per fund, commit meaningful amounts of
their own money alongside their
partners, and focus all their time and
the best people on that single
opportunity. What sets them apart is
that they come to investing as
operators. Alex previously ran the
largest railroad in Latin America and
Daniel served as the CEO of Burger King
and many of their partners have spent
years as CEOs, CFOs or senior operators
inside of complex organizations. When 3G
buys a company, they step in as
operators, align incentives with
ownership and work alongside management
to improve the business. That approach
has produced a series of iconic deals,
including Burger King, Tim Hortons,
Hunter Douglas, and Sketchers. Along the
way, they've also become known for
developing talent, giving young leaders
real responsibility and ownership, and
holding an unusually high bar. Please
enjoy this great conversation with Alex
and Daniel. Once you've heard from Alex
and Daniel, I highly recommend you also
read our in-depth profile on them and 3G
Capital. They gave our managing editor
Dom Cook unprecedented access, and the
outcome is an excellent profile about
the 50-year history of 3G and how the
model began with George Apollo Lemon in
Brazil.
I want to start with this one investment
per fund concept because first of all I
just think it's extremely cool to think
about having a big pool of capital to
deploy into one thing and all the work
that goes into that what ends up being
that one thing despite looking at
countless other businesses. Where did
that concept come from? Because it must
dictate so much about the nature and
culture of the investment strategy firm
people. One investment per fund sounds
interesting and I know it is from our
past discussions. Where did that come
from?
>> So that comes from our Brazilian roots
where my co-founders had done this beer
investment that had worked really well
and then as they branched off into
private equity and a predecessor firm of
this firm in Brazil. They attempted a
bit the more traditional approach also
that went okay. But then we understood a
couple of lessons from that. One was
that really really great businesses
are rare. There are not that many of
them to begin with. Secondly, the ones
that exist, they are not oftenly
actionable.
So therefore, if you're going to be in
the business of putting a lot of your
own capital to work and if you're going
to be very involved, the people that
you're going to need to deploy there and
the time are also a scarce resource. So
when I started the firm in New York in
2004, we already had those things pretty
clearly understood and that was a
premise that to the extent that we would
get involved with businesses on a
strategic long-term basis, it would be
one at a time.
>> We have this luxury of only having to
find one great business at a time. And I
think, you know, if you're investing
your own capital and if that's the lens
through which you're looking at the
investment, you want to be really
patient and wait until you find that
great business. The other way to look at
is it's so hard for us to find a great
business to invest in. How are we going
to find 10? It's so hard to find great
people to be great CEOs. So, like, how
are we going to find 10? So, I think
it's great to be able to buy one
business every once in a while and send
in your A++ players to get involved.
>> Is there any psychological fear pressure
associated with knowing that it's just
one all eggs in one basket and watch the
basket very closely? Like what
psychology does that feel like? As much
as the psychology, I think it drives the
investment process a very rigorous
analysis of what the downside can be.
And in our case, the downside has to be
capital preservation with some small
return of sorts and that drives business
sort of decisions and it also drives
capital structure decisions. I think
that's where it manifests itself the
most. If you were to look at businesses
that we didn't buy or deals that we
didn't do over a long period of time,
I think more often than not that would
be a function of us not being
comfortable with a potential downside
scenario or a downside case as opposed
to us not finding a path to a great
case. I think it's a healthy pressure
that we put on ourselves to make sure
that we're not compromising on business
quality and we're only rather do nothing
than our capital structure being.
>> Exactly. Yeah. Like we're going to buy a
great business. We're going to leverage
it appropriately, not too much.
>> It definitely makes it harder to price
risk. If you think about like the
traditional portfolio approach where
it's the portfolio construction part of
your
>> Yeah. you have 10 businesses and if one
has some idiosyncratic risk or whatever,
it's like it's harder to price risk. So,
we take that into consideration,
>> but then on the other hand, you have
this team here who they're really
excited to do a great deal and often
times they're going to bet their own
careers as is the case with Alex and a
railroad that he bought in Brazil, as is
the case with Burger King that we bought
here for me. And so when you're betting
your reputation on something, you want
to hold it to the highest possible
standard.
>> If you think back to that the very first
days, 2004 thereabouts through to today,
20 years, how has your idea of what
constitutes a great business changed the
most through all of these investigations
and running the five six businesses?
What's most changed about your views?
>> We over the years had to refine our
investment process in terms of making
that determination whether a business is
great or not. as a function of how the
world changed because of technology. The
possibilities of a business being
disrupted in this day and age as
compared to maybe 20 years ago are
significantly higher and therefore the
investment process and the investment
discussion around disruption needs to be
significantly more detailed and
thorough.
>> Yeah, I agree with that. Disruption and
disintermediation. I think we have a
greater appreciation today for
businesses that own the relationship
with their end customers. If you have
that, you're less likely, I mean, it
seems obvious, but less likely to be
disintermediated through some new
disruptive force.
>> How did you most learn that specific
lesson, the disintermediation lesson?
>> Since 2004, we followed restaurant
businesses. We followed packaged food
and consumer packaged goods businesses.
There is this ongoing shift we see in
society of the share gain of private
label. If you're a large retailer, be it
a Walmart and Amazon, Costco,
if you own the relationship with your
customers, you have this ability to
disintermediate the company selling to
you.
>> Kirkland happens. Yeah,
>> Kirkland's a fantastic brand. It's one
of the largest in the country and you
and I probably both have plenty of
Kirkland products in our household.
Compare contrast that with the
restaurant business. So Burger King or
Tim Hortons, Popeye's or Firehouse Subs,
I mean those just a few great brands. I
mean, we happen to be involved in them.
Each of those brands owns the
relationship with our end customers. And
so if you want a Whopper, you're coming
to a Burger King or in the case of our
Hunter Douglas business. If you want
blinds, you're coming to a Hunter
Douglas dealer or one of our shop at
home dealers. And so I think we have a
much better appreciation for that. If I
think about just the businesses
themselves, we were joking before about
the simplicity of the business. And
maybe when you're talking to Buffett
about one of these businesses, don't
make the business description
complicated. And it's interesting how
burgers, shoes, shades, you could
actually do it in a word in many cases
with your business. You don't even need
a whole paragraph. Maybe say a little
bit more about that.
>> We're not well suited to manage
businesses that require high IQ.
be honest with you,
>> we have some mutual friends who are much
better suited to invest in the next
technological
>> autoflow. Exactly. We're just not that.
We've managed to stay pretty disciplined
to stick to good, relatively easy to
understand, well-moded businesses that
we and our partners here could kind of
wrap our heads around. Businesses that
have ideally been around for a long time
with strong brand franchises that we
could own and grow and maybe improve a
little bit. As Munger used to say, "Show
me the incentives, I'll show you the
outcome." In addition to the one
investment per fund, I'd love to
understand the other distinguishing
features of how the capital is set up,
who the LPS are, what the incentives
are, how the fees work because almost
everything you do is a little bit
different than the traditional model.
Maybe you could walk us through what
those are because those so then
determine the outcomes.
>> Two of the things that are different,
two or three of the things, one is the
proportion of house capital. We and our
group of co-founders and partners and
whatnot are the largest investors on
each and every deal that we do. Number
one. Number two, the balance of the
capital that's not ours is different
from a traditional PE firm in the sense
that that's a much higher component of
high net worth individuals and families
around the world, some sovereigns also,
but a very different LP base. and also
the fact that we over the years have
devised mechanisms that allow us to be
invested for a long period of time. We
invested on RBI for 15 years in counting
and so on. So I think those are the
three main differences. One additional
large difference in our case is
the folks here have largely all been in
both investing roles and operating
roles. And so in Alex's case, he was the
CEO of the largest Brazilian rail and
logistics company, the largest Latin
American rail and logistics company. I
was the CFO and CEO of what was Burger
King and now is today Restaurant Brands
International. That applies to some of
our other partners here as well. I think
this experience of being an operator and
an investor allows us to ultimately be a
better investor and allows us when we
get involved in these businesses to be
able to send our own people in who are
partners of ours here who have also been
CEOs and CFOs and operators of
businesses and who are well incentivized
to create value at the company that's
directly linked and aligned with us and
our limited partners. If you think about
this unique nature of it being so much
house capital, you're on the line with
all of your LPs and you think about the
search for let's say Hunter Douglas,
which was a transaction 3, four years
ago. Talk about the length of time that
you're willing to engage with a company,
maybe in that specific case, how long it
took you to get to know that business
and how the transaction came together.
These are very unique ways and long
durations and I'd love just to like put
some meat on those bones. I've mapped
Ralph in the mid 2000s. First in
Switzerland and then we got also close
to his family here. The two sons, one
resided in Greenwich too recently and
the other one resided here near the city
and had a good relationship going for a
long time.
I think that not until
few years ago was Ralph aged
and he was trying to organize his family
affairs
and he was trying to carve a solution
for the fact that one of his sons wanted
to remain involved in the business which
is David our partner and he also cared
what happened to Hunter Douglas phoning
a hundred years in the family And that's
the context in which we started a
conversation. But that was already 2021
mid year. I visited him in Switzerland
in his home and had a conversation about
it and he was then brainstorming what to
do and I think the outcome of that
conversation was that he would give us a
window to present him with a proposal
and then if he liked that proposal we
would move forward. That's sort of how
it started.
>> So sort of a 15-year investment of time
to get that window
>> in this case. That's right. I like that
we're inserting the word window here
many times, but maybe just some
additional color. You had a
long-standing relationship with Ralph. I
had first met David in 2007.
David is Ralph's son, who is now our
partner in Hunter Douglas. He he rolled
his shares into the transaction a few
years ago. They invested alongside us in
Burger King. We built a good
relationship, lots of mutual respect.
David came down, Alex, Alex, I guess,
and I organized to have some of our
partners come visit us in Burger King in
2011 or 2012, and we gave a presentation
on what we were doing. And remember
spending time with David and he said,
"This reminds me in some respects of
Hunter Douglas, this kind of
entrepreneurial
startup type culture in a traditional
business." And we kept tabs on their
business through the years as well. And
we watched David do some
transformational acquisitions along the
way to evolve that Hunter Douglas
business to become even more direct to
consumer. So to go to both selling
through dealer and direct to consumer.
We were big admirers of that business
for many many years and we had the
history of following the business for
many many many years prior to Alex and
Ralph chatting about succession and next
steps for the business. So we played the
real long game. David did really sort of
shape the company through those deals. I
think
>> he did. David evolved Hunter Douglas
into a business that we had an even
greater appreciation for 15 years after
meeting him.
>> Maybe since it's a company that probably
people have seen can imagine is a
product that's accessible and simple to
understand. Use it as an example to
explain the criteria that you love in a
business. describe the business and but
more importantly what it is about it
when you did the transaction that was so
appealing.
>> The business basically
owns the relationships. It doesn't have
a concentrated customer or a
concentrated supplier. So it's a
business that's really well positioned
in an industry purchasing windows
covering products is not a frequent
thing. It's not something that you do
every week or every year even. So I
think that really sort of set itself
well for a business.
>> So I understand that last piece meaning
because you do it infrequently, brand
and familiarity matter a lot. Like if
you're not going to do it often, you'd
rather just go
>> also a lot of times you do it in the
context of a renovation for instance
where it's never a big part of that
also. So I think it lands itself quality
matters. Our quality is almost in a way
too good. I wish people would replace
the product sooner.
>> The TAM for the interior and exterior
window coverings is around $70 billion.
HD is far and away the largest player.
We have this combination of scaled
manufacturing coupled with scale
distribution
and that allows us to either through our
own sales force or through our exclusive
dealer network deliver the product
within a week, two weeks, which is
typically what people would expect their
window coverings to be delivered. Every
product is largely custom made to
measure. So there's no one single skew.
And so we have billions of permutations
of styles, colors,
patterns, sizes. And the business was
around prior to us buying it for about a
hundred years. And we talk about all the
things that can change in the world and
disruption risks, but we're highly
confident about the sun rising and the
sun setting. And you see houses are
being built with larger and larger
windows because people like natural
light. And so it's a product that's here
to stay. We're the number one leader.
There's some volume growth. There's a
little bit of price growth. And as I
mentioned, as we mentioned earlier,
there's this historical
roll up element of the business where
you're buying small players in the
industry and we are the natural home for
many of these small players. also
climate change and the increased
awareness of the risks associated with
that and the need to save energy and
whatnot. I mean, that's a positive
driver for this business.
>> A lot of companies brag about all their
ESG initiatives and energy savings. Our
window coverings actually save people
tons of energy. It's a natural way to
keep your house cool. I mean, it sounds
like sort of the ultimate example of
like there are no two kids in a garage
in Silicon Valley wondering how to
disrupt Hunter Douglas. It would just be
a senseless endeavor.
>> I think it's one of these things where
the TAM is large, but it's not so large
and we really have this scaled
manufacturing coupled with the scale
distribution. And so, I think gaining
distribution is hard. It's quite hard
given the way you go to market because
there's a service component, there's an
installation component to this product,
this process.
>> Given the returns that you've
demonstrated are possible, RBI is up 30x
multiple on capital or something and
going. Why do you think there are not
more firms like 3G that do serial single
investment extreme focused style? Why
are you the one that I'm aware of?
>> I have a few thoughts on this. You've
seen how much value and enterprise value
has been created in the alternative
investments like lands broader landscape
and so how often do people Alex tell you
why don't you guys buy more businesses
why don't you raise larger funds why
don't you get more diversified so I
think there is this pull to do all that
for a reasonably good reason
>> I don't presume that our model is
superior to others there incredibly
successful firms that have very
different model, very different way to
going about their business than us. And
I think what's important for every
successful firm, I mean, we're no
exception to that, is find out what
works well for you. And for us, for a
very long, for decades now, that's the
model that works really well for us to
invest our capital, to compound the
capital of the people that are closed
and invest with us. And I think we
should stick to that and not try to
emulate other people's models. And
that's probably true vice versa. And
most successful firms have their own
model that they develop that works for
them, for their culture, for their
people, for their capital. I think also
staying quote unquote small allows us to
attract
some of the best best best people on the
investment side here because we could
still offer people founder-like
economics,
a path to partnership, a path to taking
on responsibility much much faster than
those people might have if they take a
kind of traditional investment path.
>> Yes. And this is a place where we think
that over time the firm should always be
owned by the people driving it. And
historically that has been the case. My
co-founders and me and then I'm still
here. My co-founders over time become
more on the capital side. Daniel was an
analyst and sitting here today. I was an
analyst early on in the predecessor firm
of this. So we do have a demonstrated
culture that attracts people that way. I
love the notion that both of you ran
businesses as the CEO and I'm especially
curious about the forged and fire
moments from running the Brazilian
railway. What were the aspects of
operating as the CEO that you most
remember that most shaped how you think
about running a business well or
investing well? Within a few weeks in
the business, it was apparent that it
was an operations challenge. Meaning the
customers around the railroad all wanted
to be serviceed by the railroad and they
couldn't because the service wasn't good
enough. And the focus on basically
turning the assets faster and more
safely was really the driver of the
company's success
which drove me in turn to spend a week a
month in overalls driving trains and
going around the country. That allowed
me first to get close to the engineers
in the business basically which were
crucial the people that run the trains
and given and understand how important
they were in that business in every
respect and do things to improve their
lives that you could only do if you were
out there with them. For instance, I was
young and athletic and sitting in a
locomotive for eight hours in those
really old chairs was really tough and
the cabins were cold because they were
not sealed properly. So, all of that was
not expensive to address. We didn't have
the money to buy brand new General
Electric locomotives, but we could fix
that. And we could also fix all the
engineering quarters where people sleep
between changeovers which were also in
dire straits conditions. And we were
able to get them all fixed, get new
beds, get satellite TV for sports and
get them all that done. That really
drove a lot of support from the
engineers. We were able to then
capitalize on that by having on board
computers rank people on their fuel and
safety performance nationwide. I mean
real roers are very proud people and
that drove 30% reduction in fuel for
example which was a number one cost in
the company that drove much higher asset
turns because we then did the same thing
in the yards and there were all the
ideas and participation
and these people all had the solutions
for things. they just needed to be
engaged and to address this operating
challenge which was the biggest value
creation driver. So that taught me a
little bit about managing by walking
around and not sitting in an office and
getting fab information through
PowerPoint.
>> It seems like that's one critical lesson
in the general category of finding
hygiene and inefficiencies within the
businesses that you buy to make them a
lot better. This like an obvious thing
to say like yeah of course you want the
business to be more efficient. How else
have you learned to do that effectively
across several different kinds of
businesses? What are the playbooks that
you've most enjoyed rolling out
businessto business? Not just to fix,
but to find the inefficiencies in the
first place.
>> One of the things that's interesting,
you hear Alex's story in the railroad
and a lot of these initiatives he
outlined were his, but he benefited from
some great advice from co-founders.
our co-founders absolutely who
>> two of whom were CEOs of operating
businesses themselves at relatively
young ages and who gave Alex a shot when
he was 30 and they gave you some real
practical advice which you then passed
on to me when I I guess became CFO or
CEO of Burger King which if you hear
some of this advice you'll be able to
connect it to some of Alex's actions
which were at the time for me deeply
insightful comments that were very
contra to how I behaved and acted as an
investment analyst. Things like manage
the people, not the business. Centralize
the what, not the how. Go around asking
lots and lots of questions. Don't ever
be afraid to ask people questions, even
if something that seems obvious to the
organization might not be as obvious to
you. When we were buying
Burger King, I'll never forget to just
show how naive maybe I was at the time.
Alex says to me, we announced the deal.
and Alice, well, now it's time we got to
assemble our team. I'm like, Alex, come
on. We just bought this business. It's
like $4 billion. It comes with people,
right? And Alex is like, well, it does,
but I think it's really important. And
we got to assemble like an A+ worldass
leadership team. And just kind of dawned
on me, which he had experienced this in
years, a business is nothing more than a
bunch of people kind of running around
doing things. And quality of the people
is paramount to the quality of the
business. In these businesses, you want
to create a culture centered around
ownership. And that starts with the
leaders of the business who need to act
like they are and behave like they are
and be the shareholders of the business.
So the leaders need to be the
shareholders. The leaders can't just be
quoteunquote the management. Management
and shareholders need to be one and the
same. And so once you've established
that, now you can go to the next step.
It's like how are you going to manage a
business if you are its owner? You're
going to look after all the money you
spend as if it's your own. You are going
to make decisions based on what is in
the best interest of the business. You
always have to put your business before
yourself. And so typically when we come
into these businesses, we love doing
benchmarking exercises where we will
look at expenses cost by area within the
business. So let's say by the North
American group, the European group, the
Asia-Pacific group. And then we look at
by category all the way we're spending
money. We call this zerobased budgeting.
And we basically give visibility on cost
to everyone. And we say, look, if this
one group is spending this much on this
area, well, why can't we apply policies
throughout the organization to benchmark
both with ourselves internally and other
companies externally? and you find
enormous amounts of savings and just
doing kind of simple internal and
external benchmarking. But you only are
able to capitalize and achieve those
savings if you have buyin at the top of
people who view this as owners of the
business who want to run it optimally
for the business and not necessarily for
themselves.
>> What does centralized the what mean?
It's basically to give people freedom to
figure out things
and focus the discussion in terms of
what is it that we want to accomplish
which is where I think as a leadership
of the company that's an important
discussion that you should be really a
part of that discussion and then once
that's settled then give people freedom
to figure out the how because you really
want to push push decision making close
to the problems and then as long as we
are all aligned in terms of what is it
that we are trying to achieve on a more
broad perspective the actual how you
going to do it and how you going to go
about it the team should have a lot of
autonomy on that really good people that
Dan is alluding to which is absolutely
key to everything they like freedom to
figure out they like to solve problems
they like to be challenged and they like
the freedom to make decisions. So you
shouldn't have a culture where making
mistakes is a problem. Making mistakes
trying to figure out a problem that's
part of the company's ambitious agenda
should be something that happens where
you learn something from it and you move
forward. I think that's what this thing
about centralizing the discussion of the
what and then decentralizing the how it
comes in. What was the most stressful
period for you as CEO of Burger King?
What was that moment like?
>> I try not to get too stressed work-wise.
I try to always keep things pretty even
keeled. I had this basketball coach who
once said, "Pressure is something you
put in a tire." So, I always try to keep
that in the back of my head. I'd say
there was one time that I I was pretty
stressed was this was the summer of
2014.
We had bought Burger King in 2010,
billion and change of equity. Within a
couple years, it was objectively a great
outcome. Everyone got all their money
and then some back. And by mid 2014, we
were like a $10 billion company. And we
had owned 70% of the company. So
objectively good. And we all decided,
Alex, myself, and Josh Kabza, who was
our CFO, we all got really excited about
buying Tim Hortons. and we were actively
negotiating an acquisition, a merger of
Tim Hortons. Alex was meeting with their
CEO on a regular basis. Alex was our
executive chairman and I was a CEO then.
And we're in the middle of doing this
prolonged negotiated deal. We get wind
from the reporters at Bloomberg that
they're going to run an article on us at
Burger King really centered around our
ages, the ages of the management team.
were trying to buy this iconic Canadian
institution asset, Tim Hortons. And
there were some probably reservations on
the Tim Horton side around us and
business and Burger King. And so we're
in the final stages of negotiating this
deal. The article comes out. The title
is Burger King is run by children.
>> That wasn't a helpful.
>> I'm touring restaurants in India with
our local master franchise joint venture
partners. We're driving around. I don't
know if you've spent much time in
Mumbai. We're driving around stuck in
bumper-to-bumper traffic and the article
comes out. I'm reading it. I'm like,
"This is just the worst article that
could have come out at the worst time."
Meanwhile, everyone's writing us. Oh,
congrats. Congrats. What a great
investment. Really cool. And I was like,
"How are we going to get ourselves out
of this? This is exhibit A for the board
to not want to do a deal with us." And
but we worked and Alex and
>> a lot of negotiation took six months.
>> Yeah. I was pretty stressed then. It
took a lot of work to get them to be
excited about us and we had to point out
all the factual inaccuracies in the
article.
>> I'm gonna come back to the everyone
being young thing just in a minute
because I think it's so interesting. But
when we first had lunch, you told me
this story about the funny back and
forth with Tim Hortons and your initial
outreach to them. Can you tell that
story as well?
>> Sure. I was able through a common friend
to get a dinner with the CEO near
Toronto and I flew out there. We had a
great dinner, really hit it off, and he
was open to potentially receiving a
proposition to put the companies
together, which we maybe a week later or
two weeks later went to Warren and
Warren was super super reassuring as we
talked about in a nearly instance. I
mean, I remember 10 seconds into the
call with Warren, he really really
praised the quality of the business and
then and I always go back to that and
saying how right he was and we didn't
even fully appreciate how good a
business it ultimately was, which we do
now. But anyway, so that went really
well. So we had the financing lined up.
He was open to receiving a proposition.
We put a proposal together and we
presented to him. Then there was radio
silence. for a week. We felt radio signs
for a week is normal. That's big deal.
They're deliberating about it. But then
that became two weeks and three weeks to
four weeks.
>> I had only bought one company at that
point. So I'm like, Alex, is this
normal?
>> I was like, I'm saying that it kind of
is. But
>> he's like, don't worry. He's like
because he wanted me to focus on the
like, no, don't worry. It's totally
normal. Totally normal. Totally normal.
Take eight weeks or seven weeks. So, six
weeks into it or something, I got an
email back basically saying, "Listen,
thank you so much for your proposal.
We're not prepared to move forward." And
something like, "Best of luck with your
future endeavors."
And I really had two lines, maybe a two
and a half line, at which point I picked
up the phone and called this guy whom I
had hit off so well with, and I said,
"Listen, thank you for your email. I
mean, received of it. Can you elaborate
a little further? To which he answered,
"No,
can't." I mean, what else do you say?
You know, I hanged up and I called him
said, "How did it go?" I said, "Well,
it was short.
>> Not so well. Kind of short." And then we
did some more work and made improvements
to our offer. And then we sent it to
him, revised it offer to them in the
hopes that that would be enticing. And
then we were prepared again to sit and
wait for an extended period of time
>> only to be surprised and get a response
back in
hours two or maybe within a day.
>> I think I want to say less than a day
saying
>> thank you for your offer.
>> We are not prepared to move forward and
we wish you again the best of luck with
your future endeavors. The good news is
neither of us are shy and both of us are
persistent.
>> So now we really scrambling and trying
to find every possible way of engaging
in a dialogue and figuring out what is
it that we had to do if anything to get
a conversation going. Then ultimately we
found ways by means of which were able
to meet with him and his chief financial
officer and I was able to then track
down with me again and engage into a
conversation and gain some insight in
terms of what is it exactly that we
would need to do
>> exactly
>> to get these companies together.
>> And then after some time in that
conversation we're able to have a
revised offer that they thought was then
enticing enough. We then moved on to the
usual drafting and legal and due
diligence phase of it only to receive a
call on a Sunday afternoon
from the Wall Street Journal
saying, "Listen, we know you guys are
about to announce the deal. We're going
to go live with it and you guys have 30
minutes to decide whether you want to
say something." It was delicate at the
time because Tim Hortons is a brand of a
magnitude that I almost want to say that
I'm unsure whether exists in the US
terms of a consumer.
>> It's ubiquitous in Canada.
>> It's just so so large the brand in
Canada and so important for the
Canadians that this
information about a deal coming out the
wrong way at the wrong time could have
killed it after all this six month. So
you ask them when is it that he was
nervous? This is when I in spite of my
then already abundant of gray hair was
nervous.
>> How did it ultimately get done and what
was the reason that he was slow and
quick in his initial two responses? So
apparently I mean we were not preview to
all the details but the board dynamic
there between him and the prior CEO that
was chairing the board and whatnot there
was some genuine doubt about the deal
and they were discussing it intensively
>> I think if you rewind a bunch of years
earlier it was a subsidiary of Wendy's
and
>> that's right that's what drove the
>> you like do we really want to be
attached to burger brand again but
ultimately I think we were able
convinced them that this was going to be
great for everybody, that this was going
to be a portfolio of brands, that we
would take Tim Horton's international
and that most importantly the brand
would retain its independence and
independent management and focus in
Canada. And also I think that what
sealed the deal for them of course the
financial proposal but it was also the
reassurance on our part that our owners
in Canada or Tim Horton's owners which
were the heart and the core of the brand
would really drive under our ownership.
That was key for them. They really cared
about that there were thousands of
owners in Canada. They made the brand
into what it is
>> since the franchisees the franchises
which which in the case of Tims they
call them owners. I think that was key
for them. Once we disclosed what our
plans were and why we thought that they
would work out and so on and so forth,
that went a long way with them as well
cuz that helped dismif
itself.
>> You mentioned the call with Warren on
this one in particular over the years.
What have those calls been like? What
could we all learn from the sorts of
interactions you have with him at the
really high level about a potential
asset, a potential investment? We
learned a lot just by virtue of spending
so much time with him. And I think
Warren had this uncanny ability to
quickly identify whether a business is
good or not and really really have
clarity around that. a little bit this
encyclopedic knowledge of business that
he has is something that of course we're
nowhere near having here at the firm but
we do try to emulate some of that around
this table of companies that we follow
over a long period of time and the
relationships that we build. That's the
other thing we learned from him. He
really sort of values his relationships.
He builds them oftenly when there's no
business to talk about and he's always
respectful and mindful and great around
that. And I think those are the two
things I took personally to heart from
all his interactions with them.
>> Anything you'd add? Warren never
compromises on business quality and
takes discipline and I think what we do
here and we like to think that we
emulate him in that capacity that we
will never compromise on business
quality rather do nothing than buy a
business we don't think is great
>> I want to come back to this young talent
thing I have a 3G story that I don't
think I've told either of you which is
in my prior investing business when I
was running a quantitative investing
firm we'd be pitching pension funds all
the time and I actually pitched the
craft hinds and then we ended up
managing money for the pension you know
a big slug of money and I remember going
to the finals meeting that's like this
formal bake off between us and others
and thinking at the time like wow these
guys are like my age I was late 20s or
something like this and they were all
late 20s and I was like well who are you
guys and it was like the CFO the
treasurer and whatever you know it was
run by children I'll throw it back at
you
>> but to throw it back at you you were
qualified in your late 20s to manage the
money So why wouldn't they be qualified
to visit?
>> But I want to hear about the roots of
how you built this empowering very
talented younger people into positions
of not just importance but control and
ownership and all these things like what
is the legacy of this feature?
>> It's predicated first and foremost on
this desire to be a great place for the
best talent. And one of the things that
we think is appealing to this sort of
cohort of people is that go to a place
where they know that there's a decent
chance that someone's going to make a
bat on them early earlier than probably
anywhere else. Then of course just
making a bet on them earlier than
anywhere else is not good enough if they
don't have a real chance of succeeding.
And the real chance of succeeding comes
from surrounding them well when you make
dispatch. For instance, as Dan said,
when he was running Burger King, I was
there as active chair for him. I had
done it before. I was trying to help him
everywhere, each and every way I could.
And also we brought people on the team
at Burger King that have been involved
in prior instances at the brewery and
the railroad and other places in senior
operating functions on sort of the same
processes or things that we wanted to
implement there. So that sort of that
combination of things set you up for
success. Nothing guarantees your success
and you have to be prepared. But some of
these things will not succeed. some of
these risky promotions won't succeed,
but you have to maximize the chances
that they work. So my co-founders, one
of the board of the railroad and was
helping me. One of them was at the board
and and taught me a lot in that period
of time and my other co-founder Marcel
gave me all those people from the
brewery that were well trained that
could help me. So that's a key element
into attracting some of the very best
people that you're going to make this
early best and you're going to maximize
the chances that they will succeed and
from there some of them will have to
actually ch becoming investors again
some won't some will prefer to be at a
company so but that's a key element of
our modus operandi if you will
>> we're lucky because I think we both grew
up work-wise in these extremely pure
meritocracies that genuinely valued ed
talent over tenure and I think Alex
benefited from that when he led the
acquisition of the railroad and the
co-founders gave him a shot to be the
CEO of the largest railroad company in
all of Latin America at age 30. So that
was normal to him and after working
together for I guess what five plus
years we or six years he knew me he
trusted me and he knew I'd give
everything that I had and I wouldn't let
Burger King fail which is why he was
comfortable similarly giving me a shot
as CFO and CEO because someone gave him
a shot and when I was in that role I
spent a disproportionate amount of my
I'm focused on recruiting and recruiting
who I believed would be the best best
best people. Not the best people who
would be willing to go to work in a
burger chain in South Florida, but just
the best people period. And whether it's
like the rising star at a McKenzie or a
Blackstone or a Goldman Sachs or at
another company, I'd want the best best
best people. And I similarly was willing
to give them shots way earlier than they
get elsewhere. Both more responsibility
and more economics. And one of the early
examples of that was Josh Kobza. Josh
when he was 25. And when Alex promoted
me to be CEO at 32, I think Josh became
CFO at 26.
>> Over time, people like Sammy Cers,
>> Sammy who was the next year and Thiago
and David,
>> all those guys,
>> all these guys. And I remember at the
time when I was getting promoted CEO,
Alex asked me, Josh is kind of young. Is
it okay? I'm like, he's much better and
more mature than I was at that age. And
so you guys gave me a shot. I'd like to
give him a shot. So when you grow up in
this environment, you get more
comfortable making a bet on someone who
has a little less experience, but who
you genuinely believe in. And we're not
just shooting from the hip. Alex, I
worked for you for six years before you
let me go be CFO.
>> Again, you set people up for success
through people to mentor them and people
on the team to help them the stuff that
they don't yet know. So, you have to set
it up for success as well.
>> I'm thinking about your mentors and your
co-founders. I'd be curious if you go
one each from Betto Marcel and Georgia.
What lesson stands out that each of them
taught you?
So Georgie has this incredible ability
to see very far. So he really
understands the potential of a business,
the potential of a person and his
vision, I think, is unique. He's unique
that way. He thinks very clearly and is
able to chart a path out of any
situation. Betto has this incredible
ability to relates to people and lead
people and get people even at the shop
floor quote unquote of a business
excited and enthusiastic and is someone
that's completely fearless. And Marcel
is probably of the three of them the one
that really honed this business model
that we all like the most at the brewery
when he ran it and he was able to
basically
create so many good people over the
years and a very clear process. Of
course what we do and what other
companies do have their own different
flavors that evolved from it but he was
the most involved in creating that
operating model. They're all very
complimentary if you put the three
things I said together.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Super complimentary.
>> I had the benefit that I was with Alex,
so I got all three. And then some I'd
say one of the things that Alex brought
to me in this was when you get to the
company having this massive sense of
urgency because companies have a
tendency of moving slowly and don't
operate maybe as quickly as things
operate on the investment side. But if
you're going to do something, just do it
this quarter. If you're going to do it
this quarter, do it this month. you're
going to do this month, why can't you do
it now? And that sense of urgency,
getting stuff done fast really, really
matters because companies, I think, are
5 10% strategy and 90 95% execution. And
execution is getting stuff done quickly,
right?
>> How do you inject that very tactically?
How do you constantly inject a sense of
urgency into a company?
>> I think it comes down to two things.
one, hiring the right people who
want to get everything done yesterday.
>> People that are wired that way already.
>> People who you have to hold back and not
push forward. You yourself as the leader
constantly keeping this expectation of
wanting to move quickly, never showing
any level of complacency whatsoever,
wanting to get stuff done very very
quickly. My guess is you see that, you
Patrick see that in the tech startups
that you invest in. They're building new
products that are disrupting new
categories that every minute, hour day
count and they need to move quickly to
either get to the next round or get to
the next customer, get to and you try to
bring that same sense of urgency that
exists if you're a tech startup with
finite amount of cash to a mature
business that's highly cash flow
generative. If I were to ask everyone
that worked directly for you how you did
this, would it round to clear strategic
communication and constant check-in? Is
that the operating system of this method
coupled with extreme levels of
transparency, which I also learned from
Alex and the guys? You set these big,
hairy, ambitious goals for the company
and you're constantly letting everyone
know how you as senior leaders and the
company as a whole is tracking. Because
if you're not giving people visibility
into this, they might not understand why
you're asking for it and acting with
such a sense of urgency. The other piece
that's crucial to this is making sure
everyone's incentives are aligned and
that matters a lot. So, as leaders in
the company, one level down and two
levels down and three levels down,
everybody having stock or stock options,
knowing that the way that we're going to
create value here, the value creation
will cascade itself down throughout the
organization and having everyone's
incentives and goals and systems
aligned.
>> What do people screw up about that
incentive piece? What have either you
yourself done wrong or seen others do
wrong that don't unleash that power?
becomes a lot more tenure based
than achievementbased.
That's when you have issues. It's not
simple, but you want to have very tal
talented people, some that you hire from
the outside a lot that groove in the
system. They need to have clarity first
of all in terms of what is it you're
trying to achieve and then they need to
have freedom to act to achieve that on
their respective team should have that
independence to basically decide the how
and then everybody's tied into the
fortunes of the shareholders all
together I think that's the system in a
nutshell and if you have all those
components in place you tend to do well
but of course I mean Patrick this is the
degree of difficult ity of doing this
increases with company size like to do
this in an investment firm with 20
people that we have here much easier
than in a $5 billion company a little
harder $10 billion 30 it just gets
harder I think it goes arai when to
Alex's point he's going out stock awards
to everybody and it becomes an
expectation it also goes arai when you
try to be fair and this concept of fair
is really tricky because If you want to
operate as a meritocracy,
definitionally, a lot of people aren't
going to think you're being fair because
they're going to think that they're
being underpaid and other people are
getting overpaid. And and I learned this
from the folks here at 3G that I felt I
was being fair. I think I was doing what
was right by the people, but I did not
allocate stock equally to people. I gave
certain people multiples of what other
people got based on our thoughts of
people's existing and potential future
contribution. And not everyone does
that. Even as CEOs, there's a lot of
pressure to kind of give equal amount
political political at times.
>> I always tried learned from these guys.
Just never be political. If you
genuinely think certain people can
contribute more, give them outsized
grants or outsized, you know, equity
awards.
>> One of the things you learned from in
this compensation arena that's tough,
but it's true is whatever it is that you
ultimately do on compensation, you're
not going to make everyone happy. So you
shouldn't try to do that because it's
quasi impossible. You should try to do
what you think is fair from a
meritocratic standpoint and explain it
as well as you can. I think this is a
common mistake a lot of CEOs make. And I
think because we don't do that, I think
that allows us to get some of the best
people. especially in the early days
that allowed me to attract some of the
best best people because I was willing
to pay people outside of the normal
whatever preset pay curve and preset
systems that we had. If there was a
superstar and make an exception, I
reserve that right as CEO to do that.
Can you talk about the very top of that
talent funnel and the things that you
have done and still do that are the most
effective at finding people when they're
very young? I'm interested down to the
granular level of what questions are you
asking them when you first meet them.
What is that very top of funnel for the
early mid20s something talent look?
>> I'm a step before you. The question is
how do you meet them? And it's generally
speaking word of mouth and being willing
to open as many doors as you can.
Someone made an off-hand comment to me
when I was in Hong Kong passing through
an investment firm about this superstar
analyst who had just left. His name was
Josh Kabza. Took note and then cold
called Josh. And Josh like how you get
my number. Don't worry about that Josh.
which is fine. Anyway, brought him to
Miami, hired him on the spot. And I
would, and I've said this in the past,
we'd go to Wharton and HBS and get the
resume book, cold email people who had
impressive resumes. And if they seemed
like they were really passionate and
they were looking for like a project and
not just a job, I'd offer people jobs on
the spot, which again was unheard of.
And I'm sure you have some examples in
your world like this. Two comments I
would make are when you look at those
resumes and when you talk to people, you
try to identify the people that achieved
a lot for their age on the young cohort
because that's indicative of them being
hardworking
and ambitious in a positive way. I find
that speaks volumes in terms of them
having a chance of really succeeding
because I look here at the firm at
cohorts of analysts and young people
that we recruited over a long time and
then I try to think what is it that
makes in hindsight some of the better
ones? What made them stand out from the
rest? I think they really really really
really wanted it. One of the comments I
heard, I don't know why I was reminded
of this, maybe there's somewhat relation
here, which is the concept that when you
bought BK originally, that the brand was
way bigger than the business. And I just
thought that was like an interesting
framing. And I'm curious for you to say
a little bit more about that insight or
that concept and whether or not that's
become something that you keep your eye
out for where a brand is bigger than a
business.
>> Listen, I grew up in Brazil as you know.
I used to come to the US since I was
seven years old and I was just crazy for
Burger King and for Whoppers which every
time I mentioned that people thought I
was being
untruthful about it just because our
investment was so successful and I found
proof on this letter that I just gave
you that shows I wrote this in 1975
meaning I was seven years old. You can
see my handwriting.
>> Some nice handwriting.
>> Nice handwriting. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Writing to my dad saying I ate in this
place called Burger King and that I ate
Whoppers every single day.
>> And then I worked growing up during
college as a tour guide for Brazilians
that came to Disney World in the US and
people just loved Burger King. It was a
well-known brand in Brazil. Everyone you
talked to and their cousin knew what
Burger King was.
There were no Burger Kings in Brazil.
And then eventually by the time we
bought the company, there were like
maybe a dozen. So this is illustrative
of the fact that working not only in the
United States but globally brand was
much bigger than the business which was
a unique opportunity because to grow a
brand like that it's very hard a lot of
time and dollars in case of Burger King
yes we can grow the brand further but it
was about
>> easier to grow burgers than brand
>> easy to open stores
>> of a brand that everybody already wants.
When we found the company on one of our
screening exercises and we ran some
math, we concluded it would take a
billion and change dollars of equity
capital to buy Burger King. At the time,
McDonald's was I say like an 8090
billion company. Yum was a $30 billion
company. And Burger King just felt like
there was this mismatch. Obviously, we
did a lot of work to justify and support
this thesis that the brand was bigger
than the business. Even just the very
first glance, we both said, "It doesn't
make sense. It sounds wrong." Of course,
Alex was like, "You sure the share
count's right? Missed some shares or
something and it didn't look right." But
it made sure we got the share count
right. And it didn't meet the smell
test. And we asked some people around
us. And I said in the past, I asked my
then fiance was like a doctor and my mom
was a lawyer who were objectively smart
but not in finance. And McDonald's is
$90 billion. What do you think Burger
King's worth? No one said a bill. No one
said a billion. like I don't know 20
billion 30 billion and so it met that
smell test and we did a lot of work to
support the view that we would be able
to run the business much much more
profitably from IBIDA standpoint from a
cash flow standpoint and if we got a few
things right we can grow it much faster
too
>> what was wrong so obviously something
had to contribute to the fact that it
only took a billion dollars of equity
capital to buy the thing what was the
issue and then the early levers that you
used once you owned
>> Well there two or three things, right?
One of them was we were not focused on
being a great franchiseor. We're
operating too many restaurants in too
many places in too many countries and
that was not a great source of focus and
it muddled the organizational structure.
It muddled the clarity of what we were
trying to do. That's something that we
fixed. But they had almost 2,000
restaurants around
>> different go to market, some master
franchise, some multi-ranchise, some
company Secondly, we didn't have the
partners, the right partners in the
different parts of the world where the
potential was the greatest, namely
Brazil, China, France, France was a huge
opportunity for us.
>> Zero, right? with zero and now it's the
second two billion euro in sales largest
market in the world for us and so on and
so we have to have the right partners
around the world to grow the business
>> and domestically the issues that the
company was having with its franchises
>> it's a great business quick service
Russian franchising but you need to
never lose sight of the fact that it's a
good business if you make money long
term and your franchises make money long
term and there were some things going on
in the US back in the day where there
were promotions where sales grew because
of a dollar double cheeseburger but the
franchises were unhappy and losing money
on that and they were suing the company.
There was real issues around tension
around this that we had to fix. I mean
those are the three I think main levers
I think early on
>> from an outside in we felt that the
company could be run a lot more
efficiently. I think there was 400 in
change of Ebida. There was 400.
>> It became even more apparent once we
>> once we simplified the business.
Exactly. And they were basically
spending overhead exceeded Ebida and
capex was about half the IBIDA despite
the fact that it was 90% franchised at
the time. And so we felt like we would
be able to run the business more
efficiently, fix some of these problems
and we could create a lot of value. And
look in hindsight yes it was a great
deal and mentions like 25 times return
but at the time these were real issues
and I think we had an early appreciation
for the strength of the franchise
business model that the broader market
subsequently more greatly appreciated in
the years to come. But look at the time
no one else showed up and there was a go
shop window shop whatever they call it
and no other private equity firm showed
up. And I'd say the consensus at the
time was that we overpaid
>> as the newspaper headlines.
>> Yeah.
>> Communicative.
>> We bought it from extremely savvy
investors who had made a great return on
their investment too. I think made five
plus times their money on the
acquisition of Burger King that they did
a decade prior. Maybe the same question
asked. I liked how you gave such a
simple elegant explanation of Hunter
Douglas. Why is Burger King and the
franchise model a good business in the
first place?
Because if you happen to own a brand
that is large and meaningful enough that
you can have entrepreneurs around the
world put their capital and their work
into growing the business, investing to
grow the business and help finance the
marketing to maintain the brand sharp
and current. I think to the extent you
own such a business, it's just a great
business model and something that can
grow in a very efficient way globally.
However many businesses you look at,
it's hard to find those traits in the
business.
>> It's a highly free cash flow generative
royaltybased
model centered around these iconic
brands that we get to own.
>> And again, you have entrepreneurs
aligned with you.
>> Yeah. all over the world really 140
countries that they're
>> great operators who are going to grow
the brand and they will earn their
profits and they'll grow the size of the
brand for us as the brand owners.
>> Maybe just as like a little vignette in
this story. How did you take it from 0
to2 billion in France? What was the
literal story of what happened?
>> Obviously everything starts with how
lucky we were to
found the partner that we did. Right. I
mean, Olivia Bertrron has been an
incredible partner of ours and there was
someone that had some affiliation with
the Stella Arto business at some point
in Paris. Had a record of buying
restaurants
in France and turning them around and
understood how to operate with
excellence in France. was involved with
the quick brand for years and someone
that knew two core skills of a
franchisee which is to find the best
locations and to find the best managers.
So he had a demonstrated record of that.
>> I think it's just worth talking about
our model though. So, as Alex mentioned,
we bought the business and some
countries had company stores, some
countries had multi-ranchise stores,
some countries had master franchise
partnerships, and we developed this
master franchise joint venture model
where we said, "Look, the best way for
us to run the best restaurants, manage
the brand in a way that it's going to be
great for the guests, and grow the brand
the fastest would be to have well-
capitalized local entrepreneurs as our
partners." And we proved that out
through the creation of these mastery
franchise joint ventures in places like
Brazil and in China and in India and in
France which is one of the best burger
markets in the world. I think we had
opened our first restaurant in an
airport in the south of France and it
was an absolute hit overnight and so we
went to France to look to find a partner
to manage that country and as time went
by we found Olivier Bertrand and he's an
incredible restaurant operator and
collaborating with him we built this 2
billion euro plus business.
>> I'd love to talk about Craft Hind and
the lessons learned from it. It's an
interesting one because as we've talked
about before, if you just looked on a
piece of paper, you'd be like, "Ah, it
was another investment you made didn't
do as well as RBI. It was fine.
Everything underneath the surface is far
more interesting." So, I'm curious for
your perspective on the story now
looking back on it, but most especially
for just what you take away from the
experience that altered how you think
about your business investing or
anything else.
>> If you look at the craft high story for
us, the high investment turned out to be
a pretty decent one. we make almost
three times our money on it and we're
able to return our investors capital and
the craft investment which didn't do
obviously as well and Patrick I think
the lesson for us there is basically I
don't know that we underwrote the
quality of the business well meaning I
mean there were significant portions of
the craft portfolio which were
relatively commoditized
and therefore overly exposed to this
changing dynamic IC where private label
and the big retailers were essentially
getting into the business and taking
share and I think we didn't fully
understand that from the get- go.
Looking at past financials would not
show you that really and I think that
was the main issue with it. Did we have
some execution issues? Yes, but we fixed
those and I don't think those were
determinant to the investment not having
been so well. In fact, we have many
years ago already, but several years ago
left our involvement there. I think the
company has decent people working there
and doing a good job managing it. But
it's not like the stock did particularly
better. Frankly, the lesson for us is
again the how much more difficult and
how much more diligent therefore we need
to be in evaluating business quality on
the investment process which I think
helped us beef up the process to make
both the Hunter Douglas and investment
and then subsequently the Sketchers
investment. Even if a business has great
historical financials, I think today we
likely wouldn't be willing to take big
customer concentration risk. And that
goes back to that likelihood of or
potential of being disintermediated and
inability to price risk.
>> What was the concentration issue in that
specific case? Pretty much any CPG
company in the US is going to have a
third of the business or so, sometimes
more with Walmart or another big chunk
with Costco or Sure, in other countries
as well where between one and three
retailers, you're going to have the bulk
of the business.
>> Is it ever fair to just apply like the
thing you did with McDonald's market cap
versus Burger Kings and just say, I
always did this with Spotify. It's like
I pay X for Spotify. I think I'd pay 3x
like really easily. And that's pricing
power.
>> With Sketchers, you could do it
something similar to that. I mean,
Sketchers is the third largest sneaker
company in the world.
>> It surprised people. I bet
>> it surprised many people,
including us. The first time we
>> first two being Nike and Adidas.
>> Adidas.
>> And the numbers are a little skewed in
that I'm referring to sneakers only, and
a lot of these companies like Nike and
Adidas have apparel businesses and
Sketchers is 99% footwear. It's also
surprising the distance because
Sketcher sells 9 billion a year in
sneakers and Adidas sells 14.
>> Yeah. I would not have gotten that
right.
>> In most people's minds, I mean, back to
the McDonald's, the Burger King analogy,
most people would be surprised by those
figures.
>> Yeah.
>> Is this a case where the business is
ahead of the brand?
>> No.
>> Because it's growing so fast. twothirds
of the business is already outside of
the US. And when you look at who is
buying the brand and the market share
the company has within those customer
cohorts, it's actually pretty good.
Broadly speaking, we like footwear. We
like athletic footwear. We believe there
is a casualization and an athleisure
trend within society.
>> That's why the industry is growing 7% a
year.
>> Yeah. That's largely here to stay. It's
a multiundred billion dollar category.
As Alex said, these trends are driving
this mid to high single digits growth.
There's not a lot of private label, the
same, I don't know, seven or eight
sneaker companies or the same seven or
eight sneaker companies in most
countries. We like the industry
backdrop. This first came up on our
screen as a fast growing good business
sometime around 2018, 2019. And we just
followed it. We researched the sneaker
industry. We followed the company in
2021 prior to our acquisition of Hunter
Douglas. We visited the company. We
visited the Sketchers company and the
team out there and we introduced
ourselves through a mutual friend as
long-term business owner operators. We
talked a lot about the global franchise
restaurant business and because they're
also selling a lot of their footwear
through Global Franchise Network as
well. And we were really impressed with
what they were building. I think they
were pretty impressed by our businesses
and the fact that we had also been in
operating roles and we stayed in touch
and we'd visit them a couple times a
year and we toured their DC and we'd
meet them when they'd come to New York
for that fall and spring buying seasons
and they tell us each year, oh yeah,
we're going to add a billion dollars in
sales next year. And every time a year
later it's like, wow, they did. They
added a billion. Sure enough, in the
handful of years we knew them, they
doubled the size of the business. It's
one of these things where to your point
maybe some people especially maybe in
New York some people wouldn't know that
the brand is as big as it is
but when you start looking into the
numbers if you look back over the last
and I'm not going to cherrypick years so
you choose the year three year 5 year 10
year 7 year 8y year they would cater
sales and volume in the double digits
and they had the second highest
loyalty rate amongst
customers. I think only after Nike. They
were the most diversified. They had the
highest skew count, most diversified
across all categories of athletic
footwear, thereby reducing the risk.
There's no hero skew. There's no Air
Jordan or Yeezy or Samba or equivalent.
>> This growth has basically been anchored
by great product development. the
product is really good and is developed
in such a way that is accessible
provides great value for the consumer.
And then the second thing is you
basically have a great distribution on
this business where you don't rely on
big boxes or retailers to get your
product out there. The bulk of the sales
are done through your own 5,000 plus
stores and your sites. That's a big
difference. Basically, you have highly
experienced management who essentially
founded the business 30 plus years ago
and Robert and his product team coming
up with incredible innovation and
Michael and his store team building big
beautiful stores and David and the
supply chain team making sure that they
can deliver the shoes to the stores.
>> Great leadership on this company.
Otherwise, how would you start from
scratch and be reaching out closing in
on 10 billion? really impressive what
the team built over the last 30 plus
years.
>> And so as the transaction came together,
what was the motivation of the other
side to sell equity in the business?
>> I think they saw that we have been
involved in businesses for decades not
years that we don't buy businesses and
then flip them and that we ourselves
have operating experience running our
businesses. And so I think the owner
operator and long-term nature of 3G was
something they found attractive. And I
think given where they were in their
life cycle and succession planning and
whatnot, it it made sense to explore. At
least they've evolved both personally.
They'll keep running the business and
they will they will have significant
equity in the business because they
elected
>> this mixed consideration election that
allows them to stay invested. From the
sounds of it, it sounds pretty well-run.
It sounds a little different than the
Burger King story. And I'm so curious.
Sounds like so much of the return that
happened in Burger King happened because
you did a lot of cleanup work. You made
it efficient and then grew it. In this
specific case, is it much more oriented
towards let's just make it a little more
efficient and focus on growth? What's
the balance of consideration?
>> You got it. I mean, I think to keep this
thing growing is the first and second
and third order of business for us
because that's what got the company to
where it is and that's what will get the
company to where it needs to go. And of
course, there are efficiency
opportunities. Yes, there are. And we
try our best to address as much of that
as possible. Yes. Never at the expense
of altering that trajectory in any way,
shape or form. different this situation
where we had a Burger King where we need
to actually create that trajectory. It
wasn't there.
>> Each transaction is different. I think
they're all BK talking about Hunter
Douglas. They're all great businesses
and I think there are different ways we
were able to kind of help in each and
this business is certainly growing
faster than any of the other businesses
that we've been involved in.
>> How much do you care that an acquisition
has what I'll call like platform
potential? BK became RBI. You've got Tim
Hortons and Popeye's and Firehouse and
these other great franchises that are
inside of the original purchase. Is that
something that you think about a lot
ahead of time whether or not within
Hunter or Sketchers you can go do a
bunch of other stuff by virtue of the
platform?
>> As Dan said, these are all different
deals. In the case of Hunter, the
company in fact has always been doing
consolidation like acquisitions in this
space and I think that continues under
our ownership. But here it's a little
bit different. I think that if you look
at the footwear sneaker leading
companies for the most part they're not
multibrand.
>> They're largely mono brand footware.
>> They're mono brand which by the way is
great in this case.
>> Well, I'd like to sit here and say the
investment memo for Burger King said
that it was going to be a platform
company and we're great visionaries.
>> I have no such memo.
>> Well, there was a memo. It just didn't
say that. And there isn't a case where
we would make I don't know 20 million
times our money
>> after five years this will be worth
three times. Yeah. So getting into
Burger King, we didn't know that was
going to be the case. And
>> but having said that's a different
nature here
>> with all these businesses, you have to
from an outside in do enough work that
you get comfortable that you believe
they're going to be a good business and
you have to hope to own it forever. But
this came up in your interview with Matt
and Alex that you only really know and
understand a business once you own it
and you're inside of it. You only know
if it's a forever business once you're
really part of it. And we do as much
work as we can to maximize the chance
that the business we get involved with
is going to be the next forever business
for us. The first time I ever heard of
your business was probably 16 17 years
ago. I was in my early 20s doing like a
reading tour through investing and I
came across that double your profits in
six months or less book about zerobased
budgeting and obviously 3G is well known
for this method but I want to ask the
good the bad and the ugly question about
zerobased budgeting. Give us your
impression of first of all how important
the concept is to your success or not
but also where it works well where it
doesn't considerations that people
listening should have if they want to
apply a method like this to a business
that they own. So I think that it's a
great way for you to understand a
business and to learn a business and to
make it more efficient because you
basically as the name indicates you have
to think the business from the grounds
up.
So you learn a lot and if you undergo
that intellectual exercise and it frees
up some expenses and it frees up some
margin for you to invest and grow in the
business and for you to take it to the
next level. Having said all of what I
just said, I think the importance people
assign it to this process in terms of
what our investment success has been is
a bit exaggerated. If you look at the
amount of money we made at RBI and then
you try to decompose that okay how much
of it was because we did zero base
budget successfully in a couple of
instances and how much of it is because
we grew the businesses originally we had
12,000 restaurants now we have north of
30,000 restaurants so how much of it has
to do with that second growth piece of
it the bulk of it so again I find it to
be a great process. I think it's a
helpful process.
Doesn't probably deserve as much credit
on our case as it gets. Would you agree?
For us, it's like we try to bring this
ownership mentality where the folks
running the business are large
shareholders and they're acting like
owners and not management. And then that
ownership mentality then needs to be
applied both to cost and to revenue, to
growth. And when you apply it to cost,
as Alex said, you do this bottoms up
analysis. And in many cases, it enables
you to extract meaningful amount of
value in companies, but I wouldn't
recommend one of your listeners buy a
lousy business with a big zerobased
budgeting overhead opportunity because
you're just going to have a slightly
more profitable lousy business. The
ownership mentality and linking goals to
compensation, to results, that applies
equally to cost and to revenue. And so
in the case of the cost, it's let's have
a zerobased budget and have a budget of
costs that you have to adhere to. If you
spend more than your cost budget,
there's consequences. And let's also
have goals linked to revenue and the
goal with restaurant brands or Burger
King, the number of restaurants we need
to open this year, the target
profitability for our franchises this
year. And so I think it just comes back
to ownership mindset and ownership
management.
>> Yeah. So interesting that your
reputation for doing this so well can
because it's such a nice sounding idea.
double your profits in six months or
less. A good book title, maybe less.
>> Who doesn't want to read an article
about zerobased budgeting or cost
cutting, whatever.
>> I'm really curious for both your very
broad perspective on capital markets
today. How does the world feel to you?
Its conditions, its opportunity set,
it's asset prices. How does it feel to
you thinking back on today versus your
whole careers operating in the business
and capital markets world? I should
preface this by saying that I don't know
that we made a lot of money by virtue of
being great macro analysts or predictors
and I know that we didn't. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm being polite I didn't make any money
by being that and and having said that I
find that we probably
are in a moment where valuations are
more stretched where there is a lot of
capital out there trying to do things
where that is still abundant and less
cheap now but still pretty attractively
priced. So not necessarily the easiest
investment environment that I have seen
over a long period of time. I agree with
Alex. It does feel like businesses the
world markets are more expensive today
than they were in the past and therefore
it's harder to buy a good business or a
great business at a reasonable price.
With that said, this thing's never been
easy. It's easy to look back in
hindsight and say, "Oh, in 2010 you
bought Burger King and it was so
inexpensive." Like I said, no one else
showed up.
>> Why aren't you happy that we have this
business model that we only have to buy
one versus we have to buy?
>> Yeah, of course. It's so hard to buy
one, let alone takes one every five
years,
>> let alone buy like five or 10 of them.
And if you're going to be disciplined on
business quality and price, it's always
difficult. It really is. It's easy to
look back in hindsight and say, "Oh, it
was so easy."
>> Wasn't.
>> It wasn't. It was always always very
difficult to buy a great business at a
fair price regardless of kind of what
was going on in the world or whatever
time period it was.
>> It's interesting to say that sometimes
we have conversations with our younger
partners and case discussions and
they're like look when you guys did this
and this deal in the past was much
easier and we kind of look at each other
what are they talking
>> yeah it's like I was there I don't
remember it being that easy.
>> Yeah. As you think about the broader
world again today and the sorts of
business models that have become the
most exciting to people, how do you
think about technology and its role in
the businesses that you buy and in the
opportunity set in general? It's
probably not by accident that all of
these have a large hard physical
component to them. Harder to disrupt
Adam's bits for sure, but in a most
market headlines are about bits. How do
you think about using it, ignoring it?
How do you relate? about the restaurant
business which you would think in
principle it's all about burgers or
pizza or other types of sandwiches and
whatnot and look at what Patrick do
accomplished at
>> look at what he drove there it's one of
the most successful
>> stories of all time I mean we're lucky
to have Patrick with us now as exact
chair at RBI and he basically took so
much share from other large players be
able to take business that's exactly
right
>> and he took so much share from the other
large players and from the small mom and
pop players because he built a tech
platform. So that's probably the best
example you're going to find and that's
true for every other consumer business.
>> Yeah, I'd say we like businesses as we
mentioned before well-moded businesses
where technology can help improve the
business
not disrupt the business. So if it's the
case of Sketchers having a better
e-commerce experience or case of Hunter
Douglas having AI tie in to decide when
the blinds should go up or down depend
on the weather and things like that or
with the restaurant businesses. Several
of the restaurant businesses are now
experimenting with AI enabled voice
drive-thru. We like types of businesses
that could be improved by technology and
we and our teams embrace that, just not
the businesses that a new technology is
going to completely change and remove.
You're going to wear sneakers tomorrow
regardless of whatever technology is out
there.
>> She's going to eat a burger every now
and then.
>> Yeah, of course. Block it off in my new
Sketchers. What are the most
misunderstood or surprising things about
3G do you think from the outside?
I think people again may not perceive
how focused we are on business quality
first and foremostly. If you were to
participate on investment discussions
here for instance, what proportion of
those meetings is dedicated to
determining whether a business is really
good or not and the bulk of it versus
talking about what the cost opportunity
is. that's secondary to that and
secondary to the quality of the business
and the growth potential. I mean that
may surprise some people frankly that
look at us from the outside in. I think
they might be surprised how lean we are
as a group of people given the size and
global footprint of some of these
businesses. I don't know what else. Then
>> maybe just to compound an Alex's answer,
a few years ago, we had hired a new
person to come into our restaurant
brands and we do this annual team off
sites where each of the brands goes
through and talks about the plans for
the next year, the big strategic
projects that they're focused on. And I
remember after the meeting, the person
came up to me and said, "Look, you know,
I didn't know what to expect here.
Everybody talks about you guys. You got
a bunch of cost cutters." There were
like 800 pages of content at this
offsite. 10 of them covered the costs
and the other 790 were related to growth
and bettering operations and open up new
restaurants. And I think kind of on us
to maybe tell our story and get the
truth out there. The other thing that I
really think would surprise people here
is the level of some combination of
groundedness and humility that exists
within this organization that starts
with the co-founders and Alex and myself
and our team here. Everyone is deeply
intellectually curious and wants to
grow, wants to learn. And despite some
of the success that senior partners and
co-founders have had here, they are some
of the most humble people you will ever
be around. And they are not afraid to
ask anyone basic questions. And there's
zero arrogance. Zero. And just this
ultra ultra high level of humility.
>> Is there anything you hope that 3G
becomes that it's not yet? The last two
transactions that we
did were essentially family businesses.
We were viewed as a great home, a great
long-term home for
iconic founder family businesses. And so
I'd like over time with the success of
those two investments for us to
hopefully be known as a great home for
founder and family controlled
businesses.
>> That's very Buffett coded. Is that by
design or is it just the nature of
what's worked for you and what you
enjoy?
>> It's also a function of the kinds of
businesses that we like which are
successful businesses that have been
around for a long time. And more often
than not, you find that those are still
owned or somewhat controlled or
influenced or managed by the founding
family. And it's linked because if you
have an owner who really cares about his
or her business and will make the right
long-term decisions as opposed to maybe
the public company quarter to quarter,
those decisions positively compound on
themselves over decades. And so that's
one of the reasons why some of the times
these family businesses tend to be much
much better than their public company
equivalent.
>> I'd love to say one more word about
that. So everyone says think long term.
What are the
>> Everyone says it
>> right. No one does it.
>> Very few people do it.
>> What are the features of businesses that
make them better when they're built very
slowly over time than they could be if
the same business had been built
quickly? If you are long-term and you're
thinking long term and the decisions
that you're making are around long term,
you will make different decisions than
if you are short-term. And a couple very
simple examples would be with our
restaurant business on people. We spent
a disproportionate amount of time
recruiting, developing,
growing some of this young special
talent who in the first many years with
us, if we were in it for a two, three,
four, five year flip.
>> Just don't bother. Yeah.
>> It's negative payback. You're giving
them a lot more than they're giving you.
Those people 15 years in now run the
business. Or France. the first couple
few years in France, the amount of money
we had to invest to get things going,
the amount of time we had to spend, as I
mentioned before, there was one
restaurant in the South of Brits that
was open. You only do that if you're
taking a long-term view. And so, even
though it wouldn't pay back in the next
6 months or year, a few years, we knew
if we're going to be long-term owners of
this business, fast forward 10, 15
years, we'll be well off having this 2
billion plus euro sales business. And
you see this in the family businesses,
especially these multigenerational
family businesses where you look at
David Sanderberg buying
small businesses 10, 15 years ago, which
wouldn't make a dent on the size of
overall Hunter Douglas back then, but
today contribute hundreds and hundreds
of millions of dollars in sales. Those
are some very tangible
examples of the benefits of thinking
long term. My friend David Senra who
runs the founders podcast is obsessed
with this style of entrepreneurship.
This lifelong commitment exit strategy
is death type builders. What are these
people like as people? You've engaged
with so many of them not just the ones
that you've bought their businesses but
dozens and hundreds more probably that
you haven't bought the business. How are
the people themselves characteristically
most different from other people and
entrepreneurs? just how deeply they care
about the business. Business is part of
their lives, their persona,
their families, their pride, their aura,
everything. They really have that
relationship with the business that they
created and that they developed. And I
think it's something you need to
understand if you're going to engage
with them. Need to understand where
they're coming from on that.
>> Yeah. Well said. I mean, they're
passionate about the business. They
genuinely care. You hear this in Sen's
podcast all the time.
>> Do you feel like there's anything major
that we've missed about what makes 3G 3G
that's important to cover or do you feel
like we've covered it? Well,
>> there's a lot of patience as well that's
required here because we're only buying
one business every many years. And so
for those of us who have had a little
bit more experience, that's fine. For
some of the junior people, it's a little
bit harder. And so we definitely have to
work with them and overcommunicating the
benefits of being patient, establishing
real trust with everyone we work with as
well. I mean, we talk about this trust
as being a scarce asset in this world
and building trust with everyone we work
with. Be it our partners here, people
with whom we'll transact in the future,
knowing that we're going to be good
partners.
>> What keeps you guys motivated to keep
working as hard as you do? You could
easily have stopped. Will I keep going?
>> I love what we do here. I'm proud of it
and I'm highly focused on making sure
the firm continues. We wanted this to
really be something that has a long long
long life. And that's something that
brings me great satisfaction to see all
this younger partners growing, taking
more and more responsibility in the
business. I think that's something I'm
highly focused on and that highly
motivates me still.
>> Yeah, same. One of the most filling
parts of this job and of running a
restaurant business was seeing the
growth of so many of these people
throughout the organization inside the
organization and now on many onto doing
other things as well and want to see
that continue here at 3G with next
generation under us successfully running
our businesses and then down the road
successfully running the firm.
>> I think you know my traditional closing
question for everybody. What is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for both of you? Lots of people did kind
things to me. If I had to highlight one,
I would highlight my co-founders having
given me the opportunity to go and run
that railroad in Brazil. I was 30 years
old. hadn't really
had more than a couple of people
reporting to me in an investment office
and making a bet that I could go and run
a company with thousands of people that
needed a very deep operations driven
turnaround
was a big bet and bold bet to make and
of course they helped me in every way
they could but that was something that
we did well as an investment in but what
I've learned from that enabled me to
come out to New York and start this firm
and I must thank them for that.
>> You could substitute railroad
for Burger King and apply the rest of
everything he said.
>> Simple and beautiful. It's amazing how
this is the most common answer. Someone
did a quant study of it. We got like 500
people that have answered this now. And
by far the most common is someone that
made a bet on me before there was
evidence that they should. That's
exactly it kind of beautiful and you
guys do that a lot as a firm
>> and we find ourselves strongly
encouraging people and the businesses
that we're involved with to similarly do
that in their organizations.
>> A beautiful place to end. Thank you guys
so much for your time.
>> Thanks Patrick.